the study of biomechanics has broadened
our understanding of numerous organisms
and gates
from insect flight
- vertebrate walking running and jumping
but less is known about the biomechanics
of soft bodied organisms like this
tobacco hawk moth caterpillar Manduca
sexta I'm Michael Simon
I'm the Nathan I'm woody woods and I'm
Barry trimmer the trimmer lab is
particularly interested in how soft
animals control their locomotion
particularly in the case of animals with
an open ceiling or body cavity internal
tissues are not necessarily constrained
during body movement and external
markers may not provide accurate
information about the position of organs
for example this caterpillar crawls
using back-to-front longitudinal waves
on the surface it would appear that the
body mass moves along with these waves
however using phase contrast synchrotron
x-ray imaging we discovered that much
more is going on beneath the surface on
the left you can see the internal view
of tissue movements using x-ray imaging
a view only two millimeters by three
millimeters in size on the right you can
see that same caterpillar under visible
light crawling on a treadmill in the
x-ray videos we clearly see the animals
trachea or air tubes which exchange gas
through spiracles the eye like holes
visible on the surface of the
caterpillar many of these trachea are
connected to the body wall and muscles
we have highlighted some of these
trachea in red not unexpectedly these
trachea move in synchrony with the body
on both visible and x-ray videos however
other trachea are connected to the gut
we have highlighted some examples of
these trachea in blue unlike trachea
connected to muscles these gut
associated trachea do not move in
synchrony with the body segment being
observed but rather with the terminal
prolix
at the back of the animal indicated on
the visible light video with a blue
arrow watch how the movements of the gut
associated trachea move well ahead of
the rest of the body segment during a
crawl quantitative analysis confirmed
that these gut associated trachea move
in synchrony with the terminal pro legs
and not the local body wall indicated on
the visible light video with a red arrow
since these gut associated tray
gyah provide a marker for gut position
we know that the gut moves during
crawling prior to the arrival of the
crawl wave advancing as much as a full
segment a head before the body wall can
catch up and that this back and forth
gut movement which we have termed
visceral locomotory piston inge seems to
match movements of the terminal pro legs
we wanted to confirm these results in a
way that would permit observation of the
entire animal at once and this
opportunity came about in the form of
Manduca hatchlings hatchlings crawl
similarly to more mature juveniles but
prior to about two days post hatching
they're translucent using transmission
light microscopy we observed movement of
the gut directly in the entire animal at
once in this video of a crawling
hatchling you can see numerous features
on the animals exterior but a couple
small patch is not associated with any
external landmark are also visible we
marked these points using kinematic
software and tracked all points relative
to the animals head and terminal pro
legs you can now see that the internal
points marked as points 2 and 11 here do
not move with the crawl wave but rather
move with the terminal pro legs further
analysis indicated that internal gut
marker movements correlated with the
terminal pro legs and the head but not
the rest of the body we also wanted to
determine whether the gut moved as a
mostly solid block or changed size
during crawling we found a linear
relationship between position and marker
reference correlation indicating that
the gut changes length throughout
crawling shortening throughout the
terminal pro leg swing phase and re
lengthening during the stance phase
based on these findings we proposed a
simple - body mechanical system for
crawling Manduca sexta while the body
segments are held in tension and
propelled forward by musculature in each
segment the gut acts as a nonlinear
elastic structure that can translate and
change lengths freely within the body in
conclusion we believe that our discovery
of visceral locomotory piston hang
offers a fascinating new insight into
the biomechanics of crawling
you